==== Command Based Programming ==== There are two approaches to making
an FRC robot: **Imperative**, and **Command-Based**, of which we use the
latter.

Imperative \-\-\--Imperative is like designing a linear list of orders
for the robot to follow. It\'s hard to properly communicate the
differences between the two philopsophies in a tl;dr format, but the
cliff notes are that Imperative is what most inexperienced people would
default to. While it\'s easier in the very short term, the drawbacks are
too large to be viable; added maintenience, dependency, and ambiguity in
control flow are all reasons to avoid imperative.

Command Based (and declarative) \-\-\--Command based is like designing a
set of rules for the robot to follow. A quick distinction is in order:
\"Command-Based\" refers to the way robot properties and actions are
broken into **subsystems** and **commands**, with a large arsenal of
classes and functions to help with the subsystems and commands.
\"Declarative\" programming is the \~\~programming Paradigm\~\~ more
sustainable, effective method of programming that goes with
command-based like PB+J. For this reason, they will often be grouped
together as simply \"Command-Based\" (occasionally, \"sane, functional
human being code\")

\# A quick table, summing up the uses \<table\> \<thead\> \<tr\>
\<th\>Issue\</th\> \<th\>Imperative\</th\> \<th\>Command-Based +
Declarative\</th\> \</tr\> \</thead\> \<tbody\> \<tr\> \<td\>Quick
prototyping\</td\> \<td\>Good; makes it easy to prototype simple
code\</td\> \<td\>Not needed; thinking about code structure for simple
tests and whatnot isn\'t needed,\</td\> \</tr\> \<tr\>
\<td\>dependence\</td\> \<td\>nightmarish; like soldering a lamp to a
socket\</td\> \<td\>Non-existent (if you\'re smart) due to much more
modular design\</td\> \</tr\> \<tr\> \<td\>Reading and
comprehension\</td\> \<td\>Fine for short snippets of code, \<br\>but
complex systems and developers will suffer greatly from the inherent
\<br\>lack of clarity\</td\> \<td\>Easier to separate each function call
and class into individual parts, \<br\>and debugging can be made much
easier (if you\'re smart)\</td\> \</tr\> \<tr\> \<td\>Issuing Robot
Orders\</td\> \<td\>Calling robot methods directly; easy to understand
for a whole 5 seconds,\<br\>dependencies will FESTER\</td\> \<td\>Robot
properties and actions are neatly fit into subsystems and commands,
\<br\>allowing for greater control and mental ease\</td\> \</tr\> \<tr\>
\<td\>reaction of pretentious team 1XX member\</td\> \<td\>dude what is
this youre disgusting\</td\> \<td\>this is so good marry me\</td\>
\</tr\> \</tbody\> \</table\>

If you yet hunger for perfection beyond Declarative, check out the SOLID
principles, one of the most popular set of guidelines for clean code out
there. I would recommend watching Tim Corey\'s videos on the principles.
They\'re boring as *redacted*, but they are presented carefully enough
to actually teach. Another caveat is that he uses C#. Even though he
uses a different language, the principles still apply in Java. Also, C#
and Java are very similar in basic syntax, with differences you don\'t
need to worry about yet.

Resources \-\-\--1. [Command-Based
Programming](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/commandbased/index.html)
FIRST documenation 2. [FRC 0 to Autonomous: #5 Command-Based
Robot](https://youtu.be/VoxeXqy1bdQ) video 3. [Overview - SwerveIO 5.0.2
User Documentation](https://javadoc.bancino.net/SwerveIO/latest/)

Trajectories \-\-\--1. [Trajectory Generation and Following with
WPILib](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/advanced-controls/trajectories/index.html)
FIRST documentation 2. [Introduction to
PathWeaver](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/wpilib-tools/pathweaver/introduction.html)
FIRST documentation *Not using with Swerve* 3.
[PathPlanner](https://github.com/mjansen4857/pathplanner/wiki) 4.
[Ramsete
Controller](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/advanced-controls/trajectories/ramsete.html)
The Ramsete Controller is a trajectory tracker that is built in to
WPILib. This tracker can be used to accurately track trajectories with
correction for minor disturbances.

Chief Delphi References \-\-\--1. [A Problem When Using Trajectory in
Swerve](https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/a-problem-when-using-trajectory-in-a-swerve-drive/395400)
2. [Seeking Examples for Applying Trajectory Constraints to WPI
Trajectory](https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/seeking-examples-for-applying-trajectory-constraints-to-wpi-trajectory/392813)
3. [Running Multiple Cameras - USB for front and back or side
viewing](https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/is-it-possible-to-have-two-cameras/338519/2)
4. [3630 Stampede Robotics OffSeason Swerve Code
release](https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/3630-stampede-robotics-offseason-swerve-code-release/398713)
5. AUTON help
<https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/motion-profile-in-swerve-autonomous-mode/398318/7>
6. [Paper: 4 wheel independent drive & independent steering \"swerve\" -
CD-Media:
Papers](https://www.chiefdelphi.com/t/paper-4-wheel-independent-drive-independent-steering-swerve/107383)

White Papers \-\-\--1. [Chimera\'s Swerve
PDF](https://www.first1684.com/uploads/2/0/1/6/20161347/chimiswerve_whitepaper__2_.pdf).
